Now back here, in this project,
you might have noticed that, at least here on my system,
I never committed this .vscode folder.
Now, you might not even have that folder,
and I mentioned before that you don't need it.
It only contains some settings
for this code editor on my system,
and these are some settings I wanna use
for recording this video.
Now what's important is that this folder
and the settings file inside of it doesn't really belong
to this code project.
These are my specific settings which I wanna use.
If I share that code with other developers,
they don't necessarily need those settings.
So, the offer, I don't wanna include
those settings into my code base
and that's why, thus far,
I always just committed this one single file,
and I never included this settings folder in my commits,
because it's not part of the code base.
Now, let's say that we're adding
a couple of files to this project
and, as before, you'll find these files attached.
Attached you'll find a logo.png file
and a styles.css file.
You'll also find an updated index html file,
which you can use to replace your file with it,
or you just copy this link
and this image element
from the attached index html file into yours.
That's the alternative.
With all of that, the index html file was edited,
and the logo file and the styles file was added.
The advantage is that if you would now reload this website,
it looks much nicer
because of that image that was added
and because of the styling.
But this is not a web development course.
It's just a side note.
Since all these changes were made,
we probably wanna create a new snapshot, a new commit,
and I wanna include the index html file,
the modifications that were made to that file,
just as I wanna include these two new files.
For that, we can open this terminal again,
and we can, of course, run git add
and add index html
and then a white space,
add the styles.css file, a white space,
and then logo.png.
But this isn't getting us anywhere.
This will quickly become a long list of files here,
and especially in even bigger projects,
it would be super annoying
if we had to add all files manually.
It's good that we can add individual files,
because sometimes not all files should be part of a commit,
but you don't always wanna add target files individually.
That's why it's good that git add, for example,
also takes the name of a folder
if you wanted to include all files in a folder.
Or you use a star or a dot
to include all files in your project,
including all files in all subfolders.
However, here I don't wanna run this command just yet,
because it would also include my .vscode folder.
You might not have that folder,
but you might have other system
or editor-specific folders or files.
So I wanna be able to target all files
and easily stage them,
but at the same time, there should be some files
that are always excluded.
And this is such a common scenario
and use case and problem
that Git supports a special file
which you can add to your project,
a .gitignore file.
And this file must be named .gitignore.
The leading dot is important.
This file allows you to specify folder
and file names of folders and files
that should always be ignored when you run git add.
In my case, I would add .vscode here
to tell Git that this folder
and all the files and folders inside of it
should always be ignored when I get at all my files
or any files or folders that include that folder.
I will also add a .DS_Store file here,
because that's a special file that's created on macOS,
which is invisible,
but which I know that exists
and which I also wanna ignore.
With that, I save .gitignore.
In Visual Studio Code, you see that .vscode gets grayed out,
because Visual Studio Code understands
that I'm ignoring this
and that it's not tracked with Git anymore.
And now if I run git add dot,
I will stage all files, all changes in all files,
but .vscode is ignored.
If I run git status, it's also ignored here.
Here I just see that all relevant files
and modifications have been staged.
So therefore, now I can commit and create a new snapshot.
And here I can say added logo and styling.
If I hit enter, this commit is created
and the vscode folder will be ignored.
And that's the last important fundamental piece
of knowledge you need when getting started with Git
if we ignore branches.
Being able to stage and commit multiple files at once
whilst still ignoring some files is crucial,
especially when working on more complex projects.